---
layout: event
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_activity_20240626-1000
title: First network meeting between NFDI4Objects and the private sector
excerpt: Exchange between NFDI4Objects and scientists from specialist archaeological
  companies
date: 2024-06-26 10:00:00+00:00
areas: []
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/community/events/n4o_activity_20240626-1000/
---

On 25 June 2014, a digital network meeting between the private sector and NFDI4Objects took place for the first time.

On the initiative of NFDI4Objects, the online meeting was organised and hosted by our consortium member, the German Society for Prehistory and Early History (DGUF). The event was moderated by Frank Siegmund, deputy chairman of the DGUF association. Christin Keller, Managing Director of the consortium, presented the work of NFDI4Objects to the 34 participants in her keynote speech and emphasised the importance of involving the private sector in the NFDI and referred to specific areas of cooperation between NFDI4Objects and specialist archaeological companies. 

Representatives from the private sector then presented their perspectives: David Biedermann from ProArch presented the practice of handing over documentation from the private sector to the state office. Stephan Winkler from ABW and Anna Anzenberger from Anzenberger & Leicht gave an introduction to Sapikon, an excavation documentation software. Benjamin Keil and Hilko Waltke-Poppen from denkmal3D presented their ‘DigSmart’ project in the field of GIS documentation. 

This was followed by a lively two-and-a-half-hour discussion and an intensive exchange between the various stakeholders from private-sector archaeology and the NFDI. We can say that there is definitely a need for dialogue. We'll stay on the ball!