---
layout: event
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_activity_20260120-1002
title: NFDI4Objects at the CAA International 2026
excerpt: From March 31 to April 4, 2026
date: 20.01.2026
areas:
- ta5
- ta2
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/events/n4o_activity_20260120-1002/
---

CAA 2026 will take place **in Vienna** from **March 31 to April 4, 2026.** Our consortium will be there with various contributions and sessions. 

###### TA5

Based on **TA 5**, the DAI and ÖAI are organizing a session on the topic: **“Unstoppable Vision, Immovable Practice: An Adversarial Debate on Linked Open Dreams and the Reality of Archaeological Data Collection.”** The chairs are Brigit Danthine (ÖAI), Fabian Riebschläger (DAI), Helmut Schwaiger (ÖAI), and Lisa Steinmann (DAI).

###### TA2

The following sessions are included in TA 2: 

**Session 1:** “Hic sunt dracones? Link 'em all! Linked Open Data, Wikidata, and CIDOC CRM in Archaeology” organized by Florian Thiery, Leibniz Center for Archaeology (LEIZA) / Research Squirrel Engineers Network, Mainz, Germany, Martina Trognitz, Austrian Center for Digital Humanities (ACDH), Stephen Stead, Paveprime Ltd, and Daria Stefan, TU Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 

**Session 2:** “Our Little Minions pt. VII: Small Tools with Major Impact,” organized by Brigit Danthine, Austrian Archaeological Institute (Austrian Academy of Science), Ronald Visser, Saxion University of Applied Sciences, Florian Thiery. 

**Session 33:** “Generative AI, Text Mining, and Semantic Modelling: Using Big Models for Big Problems, FAIRly!” organized by Florian Thiery together with Alphaeus Lien-Talks (Historic Royal Palaces, UK).

**Session 35:** “Chronological Modeling III: a Round-Table on Time in Computational Archaeology,” session organizers and topic chairs: Thomas Huet (CNRS), Eythan Levy (University of Zurich), Joan Anton Barcelo, Keith May, James Taylor, Florian Thiery, Joe Roe. 

**Session 24** (Roundtable): Real-World Perspectives on Building Research Data Infrastructures: Community Practices, Legal Contexts, and Implementation is organized by Fabian Fricke (DAI) and Agnes Schneider (University of Leiden).

###### DAI

The DAI is also organizing the workshop **“Documenting Archaeological Fieldwork with iDAI.field: Hands-On Workshop on Usage, Configuration, and Synchronization.”**

To the conference website: <https://2026.caaconference.org/>