---
layout: event
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_activity_20250123-1246
title: Workshop "Uncertainties and Vagueness in Provenance Data and their Modeling"
excerpt: on Thursday, January 23rd, from 1:00 pm on
date: 2025-01-16 12:38:04.565000+00:00
areas:
- ta2
trails:
- digital_provenance_research_methodologies_concepts_and_name_authority_files
ccs:
- cc5_provenance_research
twgs: []
permalink: /en/community/events/n4o_activity_20250123-1246/
---

# Report from the workshop

On the afternoon of 23 January, the online workshop Uncertainties and Vagueness in Provenance Data and their Modelling, organised by the Community Cluster [Digital Provenance Research](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/ccs/cc5_provenance_research/), took place. As part of the [Trail 2.4](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/trails/digital_provenance_research_methodologies_concepts_and_name_authority_files/) work programme, various aspects of the topic were to be examined in keynote speeches and a broad discussion.

The workshop focussed on the spectrum of gaps, vagueness and uncertainties in provenance data. In addition, the needs in dealing with these and possibly derivable recommendations for mapping were discussed. Modelling options and practical examples were also discussed. 

The information on the provenance of an object often contains uncertain, imprecise or even unknown details that should be depicted in the associated data. This information is often linked to the event of the change of ownership, i.e. the names of the actors involved, e.g. in their role as previous owners or sellers, the time of the change of ownership or related aspects.

The discussion of these aspects was flanked by numerous impulse contributions. Firstly, **Sarah Wagner** from FAU Erlangen and a member of TA6 at NFDI4Objects presented how uncertain and vague information about the provenance of the object is dealt with in the so-called object biography of NFDI4Objects.The focus here is on information provenance and its mapping via specific attribute assignments. You can find the presentation here: <https://zenodo.org/records/14725827>.  

In the following, **Sabine Lang**, FAU Erlangen, approached the concept of the gap in general in the sense of a conceptual clarification and the gap in provenance research in particular in its capacity as an information or knowledge gap and the gradual structuring of knowledge/non-knowledge.According to Lang, a precise analysis of the gap and its causes is essential in order to be able to model it. **Franziska Lengauer** from the Berlin State Library gave an interesting insight into practical work and application practice.Together with her colleagues Heike Pudel and Regine Dehnel, she presented how uncertain provenances can be documented in the K10plus and Provenance Wiki systems. 

**Moritz Strickert** from the Specialised Information Service for Social and Cultural Anthropology at the HU Berlin University Library and **Werner Schweibenz** from the MuseumsInformationsSystem of the Baden-Württemberg Library Service Centre reported on ethnological thesaurus work with the GND ethnicities and xTree.

At the end of the workshop,[ **Florian Thiery**](https://zenodo.org/records/14707873) and **Karsten Tolle** reported on the work of the NFDI4Objects TWG [Community Standards for modelling fuzziness & wobbliness in research data using Semantic Web technologies and formalisms](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/twgs/community-standards-for-modelling-fuzziness-wobbliness-in-research-data-using-semantic-web-technologies-and-formalisms-fuzzywobblysw/) within the Community Cluster [Semantic Modelling and Linked Open Data](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/ccs/cc-15-semantic-modelling-linked-open-data/) and presented a survey on the needs assessment of the mapping of uncertainties and vagueness in object databases.  

The discussions and results of the workshop will be incorporated into a Trail 2.4 white paper.A thematically in-depth follow-up workshop is planned for next year.

# Invitation to the Workshop

The following aspects will be covered in the workshop:

* Spectrum of gaps, vagueness, uncertainties in provenance data
* Needs in dealing with and recommendations for mapping these
* Modeling options and practical examples

There will be impulse contributions from Sabine Lang, Franziska Lengauer, Sarah Wagner, Moritz Strickert and Werner Schweibenz.

In addition, employees of NFDI4Objects will provide information on modeling events relating to provenance in the so-called object biography, and members of the Community Cluster Semantic Modelling and Linked Open Data or the TWG Community Standards for modelling fuzziness & wobbliness in research data using Semantic Web technologies and formalisms will report on the possibilities and limitations of representation.

There will also be enough time for exchange and discussion as well as information from experts or spontaneous contributions.

This workshop (max. three hours) is intended to provide an introduction to the topic and also to assess the needs of the community in order to possibly organize a similarly themed/follow-up workshop next year.

Just join here <https://spk-berlin.webex.com/meet/a.berthold>[](https://spk-berlin.webex.com/meet/a.berthold)