---
layout: event
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_activity_20241010-1509
title: From the earth to the web. Data management from excavation to e-publication
excerpt: World Café from Propylaeum (UB Heidelberg) & NFDI4Objects (Task Area 5)
date: 2024-10-10 14:57:43.784000+00:00
areas:
- ta5
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/events/n4o_activity_20241010-1509/
---

A pottery shard here, an architectural fragment there or even an excavation sketch - the documentation of every excavation generates vast amounts of research data, which is created at various points in the process and in a wide variety of formats, but then usually “disappears” in an archive. Yet it should be good scientific practice to make all research data digitally accessible in accordance with the FAIR principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) as a precondition for the fundamental traceability and verifiability of scientific results based on the analysis of this data. In addition, the accessibility of such data offers the opportunity to utilise it in the context of new scientific questions in the future.

Task Area 5 of the NDFI4Objects consortium, coordinated by the German Archaeological Institute and the Göttingen Network Centre, has set itself the goal of storing, accessing and disseminating data as part of the National Research Data Infrastructure (NFDI). The specialised information service Propylaeum supports this project with the open access publication infrastructures of Heidelberg University Library.

Digital publications offer the possibility of making data generated during an excavation - be it object-related primary data, sensor data or historical data such as old photographs - available worldwide in a fast, accessible and comprehensible way, thus guaranteeing subsequent use and reuse. Based on the publication offerings of Propylaeum and the services of NFDI4Objects, our workshop will discuss practical questions such as 

* What exactly could a workflow from excavation to online publication of data in open access look like? 
* What problems and challenges - such as licences or technical hurdles - do you have to face? 
* What characteristics must the formats have in order to be reusable in the best possible way from a scientific perspective? 
* What are the needs? 
* Are the required competences sufficiently taken into account in academic training and what are the needs?
* How is research data archived, citable and quality assured? 

In order to find possible answers to these questions, a workshop in World Café format is planned as a participatory event model.

## Registration

If you are interested, please contact [Stephanie Renger](mailto:stephanie.renger@ub.uni-heidelberg.de) *by 8 November* and explain your motivation for participating in 4-5 sentences. 

There is no participation fee.

For organisational reasons, the number of participants is limited to a maximum of 40.

## Programme (preliminary)

Wednesday, 20 November 2024

**Plenum 09:00 - 10:30 am**

* 09:00-9:10 am Welcome, presentation of the programme

  * Peter Baumeister (DAI), Frank Dührkohp (VZG), Maria Effinger & Stephanie Renger (Heidelberg University Library/Propylaeum)
* 09:10-9:30 am Infrastructure offer DAI & FID Propylaeum

  * Peter Baumeister (DAI) & Maria Effinger (Heidelberg University Library/Propylaeum)
* 9:30-09:45 am Keynote speech

  * Frank Siegmund / Deputy Chairman, DGUF / Managing Editor of DGUF publications
* 09:45-10:00 am Keynote speech

  * Thomas Link / State Office for Monument Preservation Baden-Württemberg / Head of Specialist Publications
* 10:00-10:15 am Keynote speech

  * Marcel C. Hagner / Excavation company ArchaeoBW / Managing Director
* 10:15-10:30 am Keynote speech

  * Sabine Stoffner / excavation company Streichardt & Wedekind GbR / archaeologist
* 10:30-11:00 am Break

**World Café 11:00 am - 3:30 pm**

with the theme tables 

1. **Definition of terms and quality assurance**
2. **Publication, re-use and re-utilisation**
3. **(Long-term) archiving and citability**

   * Moderation: Maria Effinger & Stephanie Renger (Heidelberg University Library/Propylaeum), Doris Hartmann (VZG)

* 11:00 am - 2:00 pm A total of three discussion rounds, including breaks
* 2 :15-3:30 pm Summary, presentation & discussion of the results in plenary session