---
layout: event
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_activity_20241114-1012
title: Workshop of the WiNoDa Knowledge Lab
excerpt: First think tank workshop on 27 November 2024 in Berlin
date: 2024-11-14 09:50:17.194000+00:00
areas:
- ta7
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/community/events/n4o_activity_20241114-1012/
---

The **[WiNoDa Knowledge Lab](https://winoda.de/)** is a data competence centre for interdisciplinary research into the history of the earth and humanity. The project is supported by the Natural History Museum Berlin, the German Archaeological Institute and other partner institutions. The aim of the WiNoDa Knowledge Lab is to strengthen data competences and scientific skills in the research community and to promote interdisciplinary research by bringing together experts from various fields such as natural history, data science and digital humanities.

At the end of November, WiNoDa will offer a first think tank workshop, which is also interesting for the NFDI4Objects community. You can find all the information below.

## Workshop: "Decoding Berlin: Data-Driven Insights into Museum Objects"

On **27 November 2024**, the first **think tank workshop** on "**[Decoding Berlin: Data-Driven Insights into Museum Objects](https://winoda.de/event/ideenschmiede-decoding-berlin/)**" will take place in presence in Berlin. 

This hands-on workshop will show how data science is changing our understanding of museum collections and offer the opportunity to explore Berlin's natural history using datasets from the Museum für Naturkunde. After a behind-the-scenes tour, participants will engage in a collaborative brainstorming session to develop ideas for future projects by transforming raw data into valuable information.

The event offers a unique opportunity to collaborate with experts from different disciplines and immerse yourself in innovative research methods.

### Registration

Please register [here](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1474250/) by 17 November. Further information about the event can be found on the [WiNoDa homepage](https://winoda.de/event/ideenschmiede-decoding-berlin/).

All interested parties are cordially invited!

### Newsletter

To keep up to date with all the latest news, events and developments at the WiNoDa Knowledge Lab, please subscribe to our [newsletter](https://lists.gbv.de/listinfo/winoda-newsletter).