---
layout: event
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_activity_20250815-1206
title: Statement on the Second Round of TRAILs (2025–2027)
excerpt: Internal Call for TRAIL Applications (Second Round) Opens Mid-August 2025
date: 15.08.2025
areas: []
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/community/events/n4o_activity_20250815-1206/
---

**TRAILs** (*Task Related Activities for Implementation and Launch of Services*) constitute a key instrument of NFDI4Objects for engaging the community actively in the development of innovative, practice-oriented solutions that enhance both scientific work and the consortium’s infrastructure in a sustainable manner.

Since the launch of the first TRAIL phase in 2023, a total of **[18 projects](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/trails/)** have been funded, the outcomes of which are expected to bring lasting improvements to the management of object-related research data. With a maximum duration of 24 months, this funding phase is now drawing to a close. Prior to commencing the second TRAIL phase in autumn 2025, NFDI4Objects has undertaken an evaluation of the current TRAILs to assess their success.

The evaluation confirmed that the projects to date have provided valuable impetus and stimulated technical innovation. At the same time, it revealed that the impact of individual projects often concentrated on narrowly defined aspects, thereby serving as important building blocks for the overall endeavour. In the second phase, such contributions are to be embedded more firmly within a clearly recognisable overarching strategic framework.

The original intention for the second phase was to reopen the call for external applications. Regrettably, due to reduced funding in comparison with the first phase, this will no longer be possible. The second round of TRAILs (2025–2027) will therefore be conducted exclusively within the consortium and will place a strong emphasis on projects that contribute directly to the long-term tasks and overarching objectives of the work programme in the Task Areas, and whose results demonstrably align with the overall framework of NFDI4Objects.

The internal call for proposals will open from **21 August to 10 October 2025**. We invite submissions of sustainable ideas with strategic relevance and significant potential for technical innovation, which will enhance the performance and visibility of NFDI4Objects at both national and international levels.