---
layout: event
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_activity_20210203-0838
title: NFDI4Objects application procedure
excerpt: Step by step towards a consortium on the material legacies of human history
date: 2021-02-03 07:00:00+00:00
areas:
- ta1
- ta2
- ta3
- ta4
- ta5
- ta6
- ta7
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/community/events/n4o_activity_20210203-0838/
---

Here we will keep you up to date on the current steps of the application process for the NFDI4Objects consortium.

## Ready, steady, go!

After 4 years of preparation, N4O will now start work on 1 March 2023 – just like the other consortia of the 3rd and last NFDI round. We are excited to start building N4O and thank all participants and our community for their support! 

## NFDI4Objects approved

On 4 November 2022, the Gemeinsame Wissenschaftskonferenz des Bundes und der Länder (GWK) decided to integrate the consortium “NFDI4Objects” into the National Research Data Infrastructure (NFDI) and to fund it for a period of five years. The project will start on 1 March 2023. NFDI4Objects represents a broad community working on the material remains of humanity from a period of more than 2.6 million years. It includes numerous disciplines from the humanities and natural sciences and many different institutions such as universities, non-university research institutions, state heritage offices, museums and associations, which are linked by common requirements for research data management (RDM). In German archaeology, such an initiative of related disciplines and institutions has not yet existed. We would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to all the people and institutions who have supported the NFDI4Objects application phase over several years. To all those who have not yet joined, a warm welcome. There is much to do!

## Application submitted for NFDI4Objects

On 30 October 2021, two days before the deadline, we submitted the second and revised application for the 3rd funding period for participation in the NFDI consortia and are looking forward to the evaluation process that will now follow. A total of one main applicant, ten co-applicants and 56 participating institutions as well as three individual researchers submitted the proposal.

Even though the first proposal has already been positively evaluated by the DFG, the consortium initiative and the proposal jointly formulated by the co-applicant institutions (DAI, Landesdenkmalamt BaWü, Uni Bonn, CAU Kiel, DBM Bochum, RGZM, SPK, GDKE and VZG) have benefited greatly from the revision. Through the further formulation, the cooperation between the applying institutions has deepened further and the already good cooperation has developed into a trusting and productive collaboration - this greatly benefited the application.

At the beginning of February, we will be able to present our proposal to the DFG's NFDI review meeting.

## Deadline for the submission of NFDI applications in the third round

NFDI proposals must be submitted to the DFG Head Office in PDF format via the DFG proposal portal elan by November 2, 2021. More information: DFG – Nationale Forschungsdateninfrastruktur (<https://www.dfg.de/foerderung/programme/nfdi/formulare_merkblaetter/index.jsp>)

## NFDI4Objects for DFG review

On February 03 2021, NFDI4Objects will have a virtual presentation in front of the DFG review panel, together with TheoRes and NFDI4Memory. We will keep you up to date!