---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20241114-1155
title: 'Clustertreffen des CC Digitale Provenienzforschung '
excerpt: Community Cluster Provenienzforschung veranstaltet letztes Meeting des Jahres
  am 28. November
date: 2024-11-14 11:51:07.911000+00:00
areas:
- ta2
trails: []
ccs:
- cc5_provenance_research
twgs: []
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20241114-1155/
---

Unser **Community Cluster “[Digitale Provenienzforschung](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/portal/ccs/cc5_provenance_research/)”** lädt alle Mitglieder und Interessierte herzlich zum letzten **Clustertreffen** des Jahres ein. Das Meeting findet am **28. November 2024** **ab 13 Uhr** statt.

Eine Anmeldung ist nicht notwendig.

Webex-Raum: <https://spk-berlin.webex.com/meet/a.berthold>

### Programm

In der letzten Sitzung des Jahres stellen Johanna Stauber und Dalal El Youssoufi ihr **Projekt “The Provenance Interface: A New Tool for Collaborative Provenance Research”** vor (in englischer Sprache).

> “As in other provenance research projects, the provenance research in the OFP Project at the Brandenburg Main State Archive generates a large amount of data. Since the beginning of this year, we have been working on setting up a database for this research results: The Provenance Interface.
>
> This presentation introduces the Provenance Interface, a sophisticated component designed for seamless integration with the Document Management Systems (DMS) that is already being used in the Project for analysis of the holding Rep. 36A Oberfinanzpräsident Berlin-Brandenburg (II). The Provenance Interface is engineered to surmount the challenges by manual data management methods through advanced automation and refined data handling capabilities.
>
> The core of the Provenance Interface is built on robust database management technologies, incorporating user-centric design principles that streamline the processes of data entry, retrieval, and management. The system features include reliable real-time validation algorithms to ensure data accuracy, advanced querying capabilities enabling complex research questions, and eventual dynamic network visualizations that elucidate the complex interrelationships between entities and artifacts.
>
> After a brief introduction to the OFP Project and the research data collected in it, this presentation will describe in details the architectural design of the Provenance Interface, discusses its integration with DMS, and evaluates its effectiveness through a case study.”

Anschließend werden **Neuigkeiten aus den TWGs** und ein **Bericht vom NFDI4Objects Community Meeting 2024** geteilt und die **Jahresplanung** für **2025** besprochen.

Alle Mitglieder des Community Clusters sowie Interessierte sind herzlich willkommen. 

Bei Fragen wenden Sie sich gern an die Chairs des Community Clusters. Weitere Informationen zum Cluster finden Sie im [Portal](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/portal/ccs/cc5_provenance_research/).