---
layout: news
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_news_20250519-1435
title: Presentation of DANTE, an online service for standardisation data and terminologies
excerpt: On 30 June 2025, 2 pm, online
date: 2025-05-19 14:24:20.620000+00:00
areas:
- ta1
- ta2
- ta3
- ta4
- ta5
- ta6
trails: []
ccs:
- cc3_authority_and_norm_data
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20250519-1435/
---

In order for institutions such as museums, libraries and archives, as well as research projects, to digitally record and represent their collections and link them to other databases, they require so-called *standard data and vocabularies* - i.e. standardised terms for the unambiguous description and referencing of, for example, people, geographics, object types, materials and techniques. However, these are constantly changing, which makes their maintenance time-consuming.

This is where [**DANTE**, the data hub for standardised data and terminology](https://dante.gbv.de/search), comes in: an online service that helps you to easily integrate such vocabularies into your own digital collection. There are over 160 vocabularies to choose from, including well-known ones such as the Gemeinsame Normdatei (GND), the Getty vocabularies and GeoNames. You can also use your own term lists and synchronise them with others. This makes it easier to link data with existing standards.

This has many advantages: Your own data becomes easier to find, easier to understand and easier to compare or link with other collections. Smaller, specialised collections of terms - for example on conservation and restoration, measures in connection with objects, materials, technology or cultural backgrounds - can also be made available via DANTE and used by others.

DANTE is a central component of **NFDI4Objects**. It supports the development of common technical terms and structures on which further digital services can be built. As part of the Community Cluster "Authority Files and community-driven Vocabularies", **Michael Herrmann** from the **VZG** will therefore give an online presentation of the service on **30 June 2025, 2 pm to 3 pm**.

The access data for **Zoom** are:

<https://dainst-org.zoom.us/j/99974415036?pwd=UVc3SmJ4Y01HaXdEc3Y3M2lzOFpMUT09> 

Meeting ID: 999 7441 5036, Passcode: 353053

Registration is not required. We look forward to your participation.

Further information on the [CC Authority Files and Community-driven Vocabularies](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/ccs/cc3_authority_and_norm_data/) can be found in the portal on our website.