---
layout: news
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_news_20250701-0805
title: 'Cluster meeting of the CC Authority Files and Community-driven Vocabularies '
excerpt: SODa as a guest at the CC - Invitation to the meeting on 22 July 2025
date: 2025-07-01 07:55:34.665000+00:00
areas:
- ta6
- ta1
- ta2
- ta3
- ta4
- ta5
trails: []
ccs:
- cc3_authority_and_norm_data
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20250701-0805/
---

*TaDiRAH weiterdenken: Aktualisierung, Mehrsprachigkeit und Community-getriebene Weiterentwicklung*

As part of the Community Cluster (CC) Authority Files and Community-driven Vocabularies, **[SODa](https://sammlungen.io/termine/soda-forum-clustertreffen-des-cc-authority-files-and-community-driven-vocabularies-zu-gast-im-soda-forum)** is a guest with a contribution to the further development of **TaDiRAH**.

[**TaDiRAH** (Taxonomy of Digital Research Activities in the Humanities)](https://github.com/dhtaxonomy/TaDiRAH) is a controlled vocabulary for describing activities in the digital humanities. It supports the FAIR principles - in particular findability, interoperability and reusability  - by enabling structured annotation, classification and networking of projects, tools and publications. TaDiRAH thus contributes to the transparency, comparability and sustainable documentation of digital research.

The presentation by Luise Borek (Akademienunion), Canan Hastik (IGSD) and Klaus Illmayer (ACDH OEAW) provides an introduction to the development, informs about the current status of the structure and areas of application of TaDiRAH and the planned further development with the aim of clarifying, updating and supplementing term descriptions - in particular to adequately reflect new developments in the field of research. Another focus is on expanding multilingualism to enable broader international use. In addition, the strategic integration of TaDiRAH into existing research infrastructures and portals - such as the SSH Open Marketplace or the HERMES ExpertBase - will be presented in order to further strengthen visibility and connectivity within the European research landscape.

The event will take place online on **22 July 2025, 2 to 3:30 pm**, via Zoom.

Link: <https://dainst-org.zoom.us/j/99974415036?pwd=UVc3SmJ4Y01HaXdEc3Y3M2lzOFpMUT09>  

Meeting ID: 999 7441 5036  

Passcode: 353053

Registration is not required. We look forward to the exchange!

All information on the CC can be found on the [portal](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/ccs/cc3_authority_and_norm_data/) of the N4O website.