---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20240614-1000
title: 'Save the Date: 2nd Community Meeting'
excerpt: Our 2nd NFDI4Objects Community Meeting will take place from 25 September
  to 27 September 2024 in Mainz.
date: 2024-06-14 10:00:00+00:00
areas:
- ta1
- ta7
- ta3
- ta2
- ta6
- ta4
- ta5
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20240614-1000/
---

From 25 to 27 September 2024, our second Community Meeting will take place in Mainz at the Leibniz Centre for Archaeology (LEIZA) and Mainz University of Applied Sciences.

There will be a diverse and varied programme: On Wednesday, various workshops will be offered for students, doctoral candidates, young scientists, researchers, teachers and other interested persons on the topic of research data management of object-related data. On Thursday, we will present our annual report to all interested parties and give an insight into the tools and services developed by NFDI4Objects. There will also be a poster session and Ignite Talks, for which a call will be published soon. Stay tuned!

On Friday there will be further workshops on NFDI, transconsortia collaboration, community engagement and FDM training opportunities within the consortium. In addition, we are organising an Open Forum for our Community Clusters to exchange ideas in person and a Tools Marketplace. Finally, our Community Clusters and Temporary Working Groups will present their work results from this year.

The full programme and a registration option will be published soon. In the meantime, subscribe to our newsletter and follow us on social media to make sure you don't miss anything.

[All information about the 2nd NFDI4Objects Community Meeting this year in Mainz can be found here.](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/activities/n4o_activity_20240806-1114/)