---
layout: news
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_news_20260304-1229
title: Clustermeeting of the CC Data Capture and Creation
excerpt: on march 10, 2026 at 2:30 p.m., on the subject of location data
date: 04.03.2026
areas:
- ta5
- ta6
trails: []
ccs:
- cc2_data_capture_and_creation
- cc3_authority_and_norm_data
twgs:
- twg2024-1_omds_oo
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20260304-1229/
---

We would like to cordially invite you to the [CC Data Capture and Creation](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/ccs/cc2_data_capture_and_creation/) cluster meeting on March 10, 2026, from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., online, with Sophie Döring (Institute for Historical Regional Research at the University of Göttingen; formerly Institute for Saxon History and Folklore) on the topic of location data.

Historical place encyclopedias are fundamental works of (regional) historical research, key tools for curating data objects in museums or libraries, and important research tools for a broad interested public and citizen science projects. While Saxony, Hesse, Baden-Württemberg, and Bavaria already have their own publicly funded digital databases for recording and managing historical place data, the rest of Germany still lacks such repositories. This circumstance not only complicates historical research work in archives, but also the precise classification of historical documents, objects, and developments, as well as the reusability of existing data. Among other things, the problem lies in the fact that the recording, processing, and systematization of historical location data has hardly been standardized to date, which poses enormous difficulties, especially for smaller projects that do not actually focus on historical location data. 

This gap is being addressed by the minimum data set for historical location data, which is currently being designed and tested by the [Historical Location Data](https://ortsdaten.hypotheses.org/) Working Group. It identifies and explains the information and data fields that are essential for curating and publishing historical data on settlements in a sustainable, unambiguous, easily searchable, and exchangeable manner. This provides a simple way of structuring the minimum level of data quality that should be met in the management of location data, both for larger and smaller project contexts. 

No registration is required. We look forward to your participation and to the opportunity to exchange ideas.

**Zoom:** <https://dainst-org.zoom.us/j/93071809817?pwd=YVscWm2i20FHyG8hgVhcO712Wya9Vv.1> 

Meeting-ID: 930 7180 9817

Code: 032259 

At this point, we would also like to remind you once again about **[the survey on how to handle historical location data.](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=apeF6xEBKkC_w59XifO4X0LFZlpATcxOiuPLhi2VPyxUOFJDNThKNVo0S0k3R0k3TVVXSkhDMjRWMyQlQCN0PWcu&route=shorturl)**