---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20250519-0744
title: Linked Open Data HERMES presence workshop in Mainz
excerpt: On 5/6 June 2025 at LEIZA in Mainz
date: 2025-05-19 07:31:35.120000+00:00
areas: []
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20250519-0744/
---

Do you have RDF data (Linked Open Data) or data in Wikidata or the Wikibase ecosystem? Do you want to do something with the data and have questions? Are you from the Rhine-Main or Rhine-Neckar region? Do you have time on 05-06 June 2025? Then come to the **Bring Your Own Data Lab (BYODL)** of the **HERMES / Humanities Education in Research, Data, and Methods data competence centre** on Linked Open Data (LOD) in the humanities and cultural sciences with Judit Garzón Rodríguez, Lozana Rossenova and Florian Thiery.

At the next Bring Your Own Data Lab (BYODL) of the HERMES / Humanities Education in Research, Data, and Methods data competence centre, everything revolves around Linked Open Data (LOD) in the humanities and cultural sciences. You can expect two intensive days with practical relevance, peer feedback and targeted support from experts - and best of all: you will work directly on your own data!

**When: 05-06 June 2025**

**Where? Face-to-face workshop: Leibniz Institute of European History, Mainz**

With input from

* Florian Thiery (Leibniz Centre for Archaeology)
* Lozana Rossenova (Leibniz Information Centre for Science and Technology & University Library)

What you can expect:

* Hands-on sessions: Practical work with your own data sets
* In-depth exploration of specific LOD topics and use cases
* Collegial exchange, peer feedback and targeted technical support from experts.

Please note: The number of participants is limited to 15 - it pays to be quick!

**Registration** is open until **31 May 2025**.

Further information on the **programme** and registration can be found [here](https://hermes-hub.de/aktuelles/events/byodl-2025-06-05.html) (programme will be updated, the detailed programme you can find [here](https://seafile.rlp.net/f/d0ee8c51d19f41969afb/))

We look forward to your participation!

Judit Garzón Rodríguez with Lozana Rossenova & Florian Thiery