---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20241114-1155
title: 'Cluster meeting of the CC Provenance Research '
excerpt: Community Cluster Provenance Research organises last meeting of the year
  on 28 November
date: 2024-11-14 11:51:07.911000+00:00
areas:
- ta2
trails: []
ccs:
- cc5_provenance_research
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20241114-1155/
---

Our **Community Cluster** **‘[Provenance Research](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/ccs/cc5_provenance_research/)’** cordially invites all members and interested parties to the last **cluster meeting** of the year. The meeting will take place on **28 November 2024 from 1 pm**.

Registration is not necessary.

Webex-Room: <https://spk-berlin.webex.com/meet/a.berthold>

### Programme

In the last session of the year, Johanna Stauber and Dalal El Youssoufi will present their **project ‘The Provenance Interface: A New Tool for Collaborative Provenance Research’** (in English).

> “As in other provenance research projects, the provenance research in the OFP Project at the Brandenburg Main State Archive generates a large amount of data. Since the beginning of this year, we have been working on setting up a database for this research results: The Provenance Interface.
>
> This presentation introduces the Provenance Interface, a sophisticated component designed for seamless integration with the Document Management Systems (DMS) that is already being used in the Project for analysis of the holding Rep. 36A Oberfinanzpräsident Berlin-Brandenburg (II). The Provenance Interface is engineered to surmount the challenges by manual data management methods through advanced automation and refined data handling capabilities.
>
> The core of the Provenance Interface is built on robust database management technologies, incorporating user-centric design principles that streamline the processes of data entry, retrieval, and management. The system features include reliable real-time validation algorithms to ensure data accuracy, advanced querying capabilities enabling complex research questions, and eventual dynamic network visualizations that elucidate the complex interrelationships between entities and artifacts.
>
> After a brief introduction to the OFP Project and the research data collected in it, this presentation will describe in details the architectural design of the Provenance Interface, discusses its integration with DMS, and evaluates its effectiveness through a case study.”

Afterwards, **news from the TWGs** and a **report from the NFDI4Objects Community Meeting 2024** will be shared and the **annual planning for 2025** will be discussed.

All members of the Community Cluster and interested parties are welcome to attend. 

If you have any questions, please contact the Community Cluster Chairs. Further information on the cluster can be found in the [portal](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/ccs/cc5_provenance_research/).