---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20250820-1233
title: Our Community-Hub is online!
excerpt: New platform for closer networking within our community
date: 20.08.2025
areas:
- ta1
- ta2
- ta3
- ta4
- ta5
- ta6
- ta7
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20250820-1233/
---

The Community Hub, our **new platform for closer networking within our community**, went online on 18 August. In future, we will be pooling our discussions and processes in our hub and making them even more directly accessible to the public. What does this mean in specific terms for you as an active and interested party in and for NFDI4Objects?

* **Simplified (application) processes!** 
  Proposals/drafts for new Community Clusters (CC) and Temporary Working Groups (TWG) can now be applied for (and approved) centrally via our Hub. All the necessary information, contact persons and forms can be found in the relevant sections of the website.
* **Make ongoing initiatives more visible!** 
  Individual areas can be created for existing CCs and TWGs. This is where meetings are announced, discussions are held and minutes, results and contact persons are stored. Contact persons can also be linked for each initiative. This makes the numerous activities within our community more visible and easier to track. Chairs of Community Clusters or Temporary Working Groups who would like to have such an area set up are welcome to contact Fabian Fricke ([fabian.fricke@dainst.de](mailto:fabian.fricke@dainst.de)).
* **Creating commons together!**
  A central element of our work is the creation of the NFDI4Objects commons. These are quality-assured and open-source publications from the CCs and TWGs. The results are created in a bottom-up process. Therefore, new contributions go through a public commenting phase, during which the entire community is invited to constructively participate in the discussion and contribute to the high quality of our commons with their input! You can find an [overview of the current comments here](https://community.nfdi4objects.net/assemblies/commons/f/1/proposals).

All contributions in our Community Hub are openly visible. Anyone wishing to submit their own documents or participate in discussions must register once. Participation under a pseudonym is permitted. The hub only collects the user's email address for a confirmation email. Automatic notifications for initiatives and discussions can be managed individually. The hub is fully data protection compliant (GDPR) and deliberately does not collect any other personal data.

**Curious to find out more? The NFDI4Objects Community Hub can be found at** <https://community.nfdi4objects.net/>.

Fabian Fricke ([fabian.fricke@dainst.de](mailto:fabian.fricke@dainst.de)) is happy to receive feedback and information on ‘teething troubles’.