---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20240807-0700
title: NFDI4Objects Community Survey 2024
excerpt: Call and cordial invitation to participate
date: 2024-08-07 10:00:00+00:00
areas:
- ta7
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20240807-0700/
---

Your input is needed! We are looking for participants for our survey on community involvement and our work programme until 15.09.2024. NFDI4Objects is a project from the community and for the community. In order to continuously improve our work programme and the exchange with our community, we rely on your input. For this reason, we would like to invite you to participate in our community survey.

You can take part in our survey on community involvement and the NFDI4Objects work programme until 15 September 2024. The anonymised survey is in German and comprises 14 questions. It takes about 8 minutes to complete.

[You can find the survey here](https://survey.nfdi4objects.net/index.php/398911?lang=de).

**What is the aim of the survey?**

NFDI4Objects is a community-driven project. Your input is very important to ensure that our long-term goal - the development of a platform for data standardisation, data exchange and services relating to FAIR research data management for the material heritage of human history - is actually tailored to the needs of our community.

**Why should you get involved?**

* Make an impact: Your opinions and suggestions will help shape future programmes and initiatives.
* Encourage improvements: Let us know what is working well and where there is room for improvement.
* Strengthen the community: Through your participation, we can take action to foster a sense of community and collaboration.

We would be very pleased if you would help us to answer and disseminate the survey. Thank you very much!