---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20250716-1516
title: Invitation to participate in planned CCs
excerpt: CC Qualification and Open Educational Resources and CC-RDM support
date: 2025-07-16 15:02:59.283000+00:00
areas:
- ta6
trails: []
ccs:
- cc-20-qualifikation-and-open-educational-ressources
- cc-19-fdm-support
twgs: []
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20250716-1516/
---

The "Qualification" work area in Task Area 6 of NFDI4Objects is planning to establish two Community Clusters (CC) on the topics of "**Qualification and Open Educational Resources (OER)**" and "**RDM Support**".

#### CC Qualification and OER

In the **Qualification and OER** cluster, we exchange information on teaching and learning materials for research data management (RDM) in the NFDI4Objects subject area. The aim is to jointly develop strategies for the development of open educational resources (OER) in the field of RDM or to adapt existing content accordingly. We also want to identify key areas of expertise in the field of RDM and derive practical qualification profiles from this.

The planned cluster is aimed at all those who are involved in teaching RDM skills in the field of the material legacies of human history in their everyday work or are planning to do so - whether in teaching, further education or practice.

Are you interested in taking part in the exchange? Then we would be delighted if you would subscribe to our [mailing list](https://www.listserv.dfn.de/sympa/subscribe/n4o_cc_oer) and become part of the network.

We would also like to invite you to actively participate in the creation of this cluster! We are looking for:

* **Motivated fellow campaigners** who would like to contribute to the formulation of a CC proposition as founding members.
* Interested persons who can imagine taking on a coordinating role as **co-spokesperson (co-chair)** of the cluster.

If you are interested in taking on an active role, please **write to [sandra.schroeer@hs-mainz.de](mailto:sandra.schroeer@hs-mainz.de) by 21 July 2025**.

#### CC-RDM consulting

The **RDM consulting** cluster is intended to serve as an exchange platform between NFDI4Objects and experts from RDM consulting practice - be it at universities, research institutions, authorities or RDM associations.

Are you interested in participating in the exchange? Then we would be delighted if you would subscribe to our [DFN mailing list](https://www.listserv.dfn.de/sympa/subscribe/n4o_cc_fdmsupport) and become part of the network.

We would also like to invite you to actively participate in the founding of the cluster! Are you interested in participating as a founding member in the development of the current draft of the [CC-Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RqmjGckc813kLWhNPFhfnwKYv0jBwK4MvoIZGE8aW1E/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.n4qcr2ddjzxa)? Then please **write to [sandra.schroeer@hs-mainz.de](mailto:sandra.schroeer@hs-mainz.de) by 21 July 2025**.

Thank you for your interest!