---
layout: news
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_news_20240716-0847
title: 'Registration open: 2nd Community Meeting'
excerpt: You can register for our 2nd NFDI4Objects Community Meeting until 13 September
  2024.
date: 2024-07-16 08:46:00+00:00
areas: []
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20240716-0847/
---

***You can now register for our second Community Meeting from 25 to 27 September 2024 in Mainz. More info in the article.***

In a few months, it will be time again: our Community Meeting will take place for the second time. This year, NFDI4Objects is inviting you to Mainz from 25 to 27 September at the Leibniz Centre for Archaeology and Mainz University of Applied Sciences.

There is no participation fee for our community meeting. However, registration for the conference and workshops is required. The registration deadline for the Community Meeting is 13.09.24.

[Register here now!](https://reg.nfdi4objects.net/N4O/CM2024/)

There will be a diverse programme again this year. In exciting talks and workshops you will learn more about the work of our consortium, while our poster session and our Ignite Talks offer space for your research and stories about research data management. In particular, we want to give students, doctoral candidates and post-docs a space to present their own work and network with other researchers. Finally, there will once again be plenty of opportunities to exchange ideas with others from our community over snacks and drinks.

[Click here for the programme.](https://cfp.nfdi4objects.net/N4O-CM2024/)

Please note that there may be changes to the programme at short notice. These changes will be continuously updated on our event page.

Soon we will publish our calls for the poster session and the Ignite Talks. 

Soon we will publish our calls for the poster session and the Ignite Talks. Follow us on social media and subscribe to our newsletter to never miss an announcement.

[All information on the 2nd NFDI4Objects Community Meeting this year in Mainz can be found here.](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/activities/n4o_activity_20240806-1114/)