---
layout: news
lang: en
translation_key: n4o_news_20250416-2147
title: New series of workshops on standardisation from the Text+ consortium
excerpt: Online event series on the use of standards and standards-based tools
date: 2025-04-16 21:37:36.438000+00:00
areas: []
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20250416-2147/
---

All dates and a registration option can be found here: <https://events.gwdg.de/category/284/>

**What is it about?**

Based on practical application examples (<https://text-plus.org/en/themen-dokumentation/standardisierung/anwendungsbeispiele/>), participants will gain insights into the use of standards and standards-based tools and will be able to share the speakers' experiences in their respective projects. The aim is to make it easier for them to plan and implement their projects.  

In addition, the workshop series is intended to set the course for future data integration into the Text+ infrastructure, promote internal reflection on service development, infrastructure and interfaces and highlight participation opportunities for data providers. The series is a joint activity of all Text+ task areas in collaboration with colleagues from the community.

**The application examples**

* 20. März: DTABf, Marius Hug, Frank Wiegand
* 11. April: correspSearch, Stefan Dumont
* 22. Mai: edition humboldt digital, Christian Thomas, Stefan Dumont
* 5. Juni: INSeRT, Felix Helfer, N.N.
* 17. Juli: PROPYLÄEN. Goethes Biographica, Martin Prell
* 18. September: DeReKo, Jennifer Ecker, Pia Schwarz, Rebekka Wilm
* 16. Oktober: Klaus Mollenhauer Ausgabe, Max Zeterberg
* 20. November: BERIA Collection, Isabel Compes

**Target group**

The series is aimed at a broad audience with a connection to language and text sciences. It is equally suitable for newcomers who would like to find their first introduction to the topic (e.g. doctoral students, researchers without an infrastructure connection), but also for those experienced in the use of standards and tools who would like to benefit from experiences from similar projects or who would also like to share their experiences. This invitation may therefore be widely circulated.

**Registration form**

To register for the first event, please click here: <https://events.gwdg.de/event/1014/>

The invitations for the other events will follow. However, it is already possible to register individually for all events: <https://events.gwdg.de/category/284/>