---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20250919-1005
title: Minimum data set for conservation and restoration measures at the SODa Forum
excerpt: Presentation & feedback round
date: 19.09.2025
areas:
- ta4
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs:
- community-standards-für-kontrollierte-vokabulare-und-austauschformate-im-bereich-der-erhaltung-und-pflege-des-kulturellen-erbes
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20250919-1005/
---

As part of the **SODa Forum on 16 October from 10:00-11:30 am**, the current status of the **minimum data set recommendation for conservation and restoration measures** will be presented, which was developed by the [Temporary Working Group Community Standards for controlled vocabularies and exchange formats in the field of preservation and maintenance of cultural heritage,](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/portal/twgs/community-standards-f%C3%BCr-kontrollierte-vokabulare-und-austauschformate-im-bereich-der-erhaltung-und-pflege-des-kulturellen-erbes/) taking into account existing documentation practices in various institutions.

Standardised documentation and uniform metadata are of central importance for work in scientific and university collections. A clearly defined minimum data set helps to utilise objects in line with collection practice and to efficiently design their use in research and teaching. **Kristina Fischer (LEIZA / NFDI4Objects)** and **Lasse Mempel-Länger (LEIZA / NFDI4Objects)** will present the results of the TWG's work, the minimal dataset and a thesaurus developed in parallel. You can test the minimal data set in advance using an interactive mock-up page. The data entered will not be saved - the page is for testing and trial purposes only: <https://conservationdata.github.io/docu/#/>

The metadata thesaurus with terms, descriptions and application notes is available here: <https://conservationdata.github.io/terms/metadata.html>. Current challenges include the balance between generic breadth, technical completeness and practical feasibility. **Feedback and experiences** from the field are welcome in order to further develop the minimal data set. Employees from scientific and university collections are invited to **actively help shape the minimal dataset**, to check how practical the proposed data fields are and to contribute their perspectives for optimised use in research, teaching and collection practice.

We look forward to your participation and feedback!

Link to the meeting: <https://sammlungen.io/join>

Further information on the SODa website: <https://sammlungen.io/events/soda-forum-minimaldatensatz-fuer-konservierungs-und-restaurierungsmassnahmen-vorstellung>