---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20250808-2043
title: Call for papers, posters and registration of meetings of TWGs and CCs
excerpt: Contributions for the NFDI4Objects Community Meeting 2025 in Bochum
date: 08.08.2025
areas:
- ta1
- ta2
- ta3
- ta4
- ta5
- ta6
- ta7
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20250808-2043/
---

We want your contributions for our third NFDI4Objects Community Meeting in Bochum! After the great success of the last Community Meeting 2024 in Mainz, there will again be time and space for **Ignite Talks, poster presentations and meetings of Temporary Working Groups (TWGs) and Community Clusters (CCs)**. We would like your contributions! Abstracts for Ignite Talks and posters can be submitted until **8 September**, meetings for TWGs and CCs can be registered until **21 September**.

**[Submissions can be made here via the event website.](https://cfp.nfdi4objects.net/n4o-cm2025/cfp)**

We look forward to your contributions!

Psst - a review of the Ignite Talks at the last Community Meeting 2024 in Mainz can be found [here on our website](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/activities/n4o_activity_20240806-1114/#ignite-talks).

## Call for Papers: Ignite Talks on "Data (Horror) Stories"

Share Your Data (Horror) Story! We are seeking captivating Ignite Talks (5 minutes, 20 slides) about your most thrilling, terrifying, or funniest experiences dealing with data. Show us your insights, mistakes, and the lessons learned.

### What is an Ignite Talk?

An Ignite Talk is a fast-paced and dynamic presentation format designed to capture the audience's attention in a short amount of time. 
The essential characteristics of an Ignite Talk are:

* Time Limit: The presentation lasts exactly 5 minutes.
* Slide Change: 20 slides are used, which automatically advance every 15 seconds.
* Conciseness: Due to the strict time and slide constraints, the speaker must present their content precisely and focused.
* Entertaining: Ignite Talks are often entertaining, stimulating, and to the point, aiming to quickly inform and inspire the audience. This structure forces speakers to formulate their message clearly and succinctly, making the talks particularly memorable. Ignite Talks are ideal for conferences and events where many different topics need to be covered in a short amount of time.

### Submission Details:

* Abstract Length: max. 500 words
* Language: German or English
* Abstract Submission Deadline: September 8, 2025
* Notification of Acceptance: September 15, 2025
* Who Can Participate: Everyone from the community. This includes students, doctoral candidates, early career researchers such as post-docs, as well as researchers, lecturers, and members of our Task Areas, Community Clusters, and Temporary Working Groups.

## Call for Papers: Poster Session

We provide space for your work on the topics of handling, storing, and managing object-related data, services, and challenges and solutions in the field of research data management. Submissions can be on any topics relevant to the consortium. More information on the NFDI4Objects work program can be found on our website: [https://www.nfdi4objects.net/](https://cfp.nfdi4objects.net/redirect/?url=https%3A//www.nfdi4objects.net/%3A54LiEK8-wcrVCq_PPw_chredGNye-o0liT0OeDmXNn8)

### Submission Details:

* Abstract Length: max. 500 words
* Language: German or English
* Abstract Submission Deadline: September 8, 2025
* Notification of Acceptance: September 15, 2025
* Who Can Participate: Everyone from the community. This includes students, doctoral candidates, early career researchers such as post-docs, as well as researchers, lecturers, and members of our Task Areas, Community Clusters, and Temporary Working Groups.

## Registration of Meetings of Temporary Working Groups (TWGs) and Community Clusters (CCs)

In order to plan the Community Meeting as effectively as possible, we kindly request that all TWGs and CCs, who would like to hold an in-person meeting in Bochum, to register this wish by 21 September 2025.

**[All information about this year's Community Meeting can be found here on our website.](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/activities/n4o_activity_20250324-0956/)**

The programme and information on the Calls for Proposals as well as the submission tool can be found on the [event page](https://cfp.nfdi4objects.net/n4o-cm2025/cfp).