---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20241016-0900
title: 'Invitation to the WissKI user meeting '
excerpt: Hybrid event from 20 to 21 November 2024 in Nuremberg
date: 2024-10-16 08:57:05.857000+00:00
areas: []
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /en/news/n4o_news_20241016-0900/
---

The [WissKI Community](https://www.arthistoricum.net/en/networks/wisski) cordially invites all interested parties to the **WissKI User Meeting** from **20 to 21 November 2024** in the Aufseß-Saal of the [Germanisches Nationalmuseum in Nuremberg](https://www.gnm.de/your-museum-in-nuremberg/) to discuss projects, topics and challenges together and to find out about current developments. The meeting will be hybrid.

## Registration

Registration is required for the meeting. Registrations are possible **until 31 October**.

The video call room will be sent after registration.

## Community survey

All participants are cordially invited to take part in the [community survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdPho9-bwmEw_NUijEfSRAYIcJrdaHUWSe393_AzI2CWWhzLw/viewform). The survey will take about 10 minutes. The answers will be presented at the WissKi User Meeting 2024 and are of course anonymous.

## Programme

### Wednesday, 20.11.2024

* 11:00 - 11:10 am (hybrid): **Greeting** (Robert Nasarek, GNM Nürnberg)

  * A welcome with a brief overview of this year's WissKI User Meeting.
* 11:10 - 11:45 am (hybrid): **Keynote** (Harald Sack, FIZ Karlsruhe)

  * Leader, researcher, teacher, entrepreneur. Harald Sack has many roles in relation to the Semantic Web. In his keynote speech, he talks about the developments, challenges and opportunities that linked open data and knowledge graphs offer and what role software such as WissKI can play in this.
* 11:45 am - 12:00 pm (hybrid): **Drupal/WissKI-News** (Robert Nasarek, GNM Nürnberg)

  * AI, Starshot, Recipes - SODa, Flavours, Barrels?; What's new with Drupal and WissKI?
* 12:00 - 12:15 pm (hybrid): **IGSD e.V.: Association news** (Georg Hohmann, Deutsches Museum München)

  * The association ‘Interessengemeinschaft für semantische Datenverarbeitung’ introduces itself
* 12:15 - 12:30 pm (hybrid): **WissKI-Users: This is the Community** (Kathrin Fischeidl, GNM Nürnberg)

  * Visualisation and characterisation of WAT visitors.
* 12:30 - 1:30 pm (in prescence): **Lunch**

  * Catering (also vegetarian) will be provided by the Café Arte of the Germanisches Nationalmuseum. The cost of the food will be covered by the IGSD.
* 1:30 - 3:30 pm (hybrid): **Contributions from the community**  

  * Projects and activities relating to WissKI will be presented in 20-minute slots. These include presentations on WissKI in the newly launched project ‘Collections, Objects, Data Skills (SODa)’, new developments from the Centre for Research Data and Information, the role of WissKI in the NFDI consortia and field reports on the use of WissKI in various collection projects.
* 3:30 - 3:50 pm (in prescence): **Coffee break**

  * A short break with hot and cold drinks and snacks.
* 3:50 - 6:00 pm (hybrid): **Introductory workshop in WissKI** (Mark Fichtner, GNM Nürnberg)

  * Getting started with the installation, semantic data modelling and configuration for WissKI newcomers.
* 3:50 - 6:00 pm (in prescence): **Theme-Workshops**

  * Advanced WissKI users have the opportunity to take part in up to three consecutive 40-minute themed workshops. The topics are based on the interests in the registrations.
* from 6:15 pm (in prescence): **Dinner** (Self-payment)

  * We end the evening in a cosy atmosphere at the Tucher-Bräu at the opera house.

### Thursday, 21.11.2024

* 09:00 - 10:40 am (hybrid): **Contributions from the community II**

  * Im zweiten Teil der Community-Beiträge erfahren wir mehr über den Einsatz von WissKI als 3D-Repositorium, zur Darstellung und Verwaltung von Werkverzeichnissen, wie man mit WissKI eine bessere Vorstellung vom kurzen 11. Jahrhundert gewinnt und über seine Eignung für die Suche und Exploration von multilingualen und dezentralen Forschungsdaten.
* 10:40 - 11:00 am (in prescence): **Coffe break**

  * A short break with hot and cold drinks and snacks.
* 11:00 am - 12:30 pm (hybrid): **Word-Café I**

  * We come together in a relaxed atmosphere on various topics such as support, development, modelling or infrastructure to collect and discuss needs and problems in changing small groups, but also to make contacts or to contribute and exchange wishes and solutions
* 12:30 - 1:30 pm (in prescence): **Lunch**

  * Catering (also vegetarian) will be provided by the Café Arte of the Germanisches Nationalmuseum. The cost of the food will be covered by the IGSD.
* 1:30 - 2:30 pm (hybrid): **Word-Café II**

  * The Word Café enters its second round.
* 2:30 - 3:00 pm (hybrid): **Sum up**

  * That was the WissKI User Meeting 2024! We give an outlook and show how you can become active.
* ca. 3:00 pm: **End**