---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20240607-1014
title: Digital services in archaeology
excerpt: Call for Papers of the Conference of the Archaeological Associations
date: 2024-06-07 10:00:00+00:00
areas: []
trails: []
ccs: []
twgs: []
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20240607-1014/
---

**Submit papers and posters for the conference of the archaeological associations by 30 June!**

For the plenary session on National Research Data Infrastructure (NFDI) on **9 October 2024** at the Conference of Archaeological Associations (hosted by the Northwest German Association for Archaeological Research with the German Mining Museum in Bochum and the Institute for Archaeological Sciences from 7 to 11 October 2024), we welcome submissions of papers or posters from researchers, young scholars and students who deal with the challenges of digital data management in archaeology. Keynote speeches on individual topics should last 30 minutes, individual papers 15 minutes and 10 minutes of discussion time each; a keynote lecture will introduce the plenary session. Publication of the conference papers as OpenAccess (Gold Standard) is intended.

Abstracts can be submitted until **30 June 2024** via **reform@ressourcencampus-bochum.de** as co-organiser (contact person Ms Pia Weber, M.A.) of the conference. They should have a maximum length of 500 words. Please indicate whether you would be available for a keynote speech, a paper or a poster session. Individual services should be presented in the poster session if possible. Thank you very much. We look forward to your submissions! 

More information about NFDI4Objects at the conference can be found in the related [activity](https://www.nfdi4objects.net/en/activities/n4o_activity_20241002-0851/) on our website.

More information on the conference at: <https://va-bochum-2024.de/>