---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20250623-1142
title: 'Cluster meeting of the CC Authority Files and Community-driven Vocabularies '
excerpt: Invitation to the meeting on 9 July from 2 - 3:30 pm
date: 2025-06-23 11:26:10.678000+00:00
areas:
- ta6
- ta4
- ta1
- ta2
- ta3
- ta5
trails: []
ccs:
- cc3_authority_and_norm_data
twgs: []
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20250623-1142/
---

**R:hovono - Tip! A recommendation system based on relevance and quality criteria for vocabularies of historical disciplines**

The registry for vocabularies of NFDI4Memory and NFDI4Objects has been launched with R:hovono. The working paper ‘Normdaten in der Geschichtswissenschaft’ is now the basis for discussion on the second expansion phase of this service. With this working paper, we would like to demonstrate the innovative use of vocabularies in scientific work and analysis practice in the long term and explain many important terms and contexts relating to controlled vocabularies in a glossary. However, the contribution to the CC Authority Files will initially focus on the recommendation system to be developed for entity-related vocabularies in historical disciplines. On the basis of subject-specific relevance and quality criteria for research practice, we would like to provide recommendations for various entities according to a sample model. In order to develop a common linguistic basis, we would also like to present different types of controlled vocabularies and their characteristics and perspectives of use. We invite you to discuss the working paper with us with regard to the relevance and quality criteria and vocabulary types we have developed and thus further expand our recommendation system.

The working paper will be published on 2 July 2025 and can be commented on under this link before and during the event:

<https://docs.google.com/document/d/110nVVgvI9nYXQn8DWwNmvLakpIZfEEmvareubGZyxq8/edit?usp=sharing>

If you leave your real name (first name, surname, OrcID, institution) as a comment, you will be named as a contributor to the paper in the final publication.

You are also welcome to send us notes and comments by e-mail with the subject "Recommendation System Vocabularies": [hinfo@geschichte.uni-halle.de](hinfo@geschichte.uni-halle.de)

The joint event of NFDI4Memory and NFDI4Objects within the framework of the Community Cluster "Authority Files and Community-driven Vocabularies" will take place via Zoom:

**Date: 9 July 2025, 2 pm - 3:30 pm**

<https://dainst-org.zoom.us/j/99974415036?pwd=UVc3SmJ4Y01HaXdEc3Y3M2lzOFpMUT09>

Meeting ID: 999 7441 5036

Passcode: 353053