---
layout: news
lang: de
translation_key: n4o_news_20251203-0931
title: Three new white papers in the Community Hub
excerpt: 'Research data management in collections and museums '
date: 03.12.2025
areas: []
trails: []
ccs:
- cc6_collection_management
twgs:
- twg1
permalink: /news/n4o_news_20251203-0931/
---

Three current posts are currently available for public comment in our Community Hub. The white paper “[Recommendation for open and secure data: Access permissions for existing metadata in collections and their data transfer](https://community.nfdi4objects.net/assemblies/commons/f/1/proposals/43)” contains specific recommendations for handling sensitive metadata when transferring collection data to third parties. The guide describes specific scenarios that arise in the everyday work of collection managers. [The minimum data set recommendation for museums and collections](https://www.minimaldatensatz.de) serves as a frame of reference.

The article [Report on Research Data Management in Museums and Collections (2024)](https://community.nfdi4objects.net/assemblies/commons/f/1/proposals/44) is based on a survey conducted in 2024 by the Institute for Museum Research (IfM) and the Coordination Office for Scientific University Collections (KUS). The precursor to this paper was the article Overview of Research Data Management in Museums and University Collections, which has already been included in the Commons. 

Another white paper from the same TWG, [Recommendations for Research Data Management in Museums and University Collections (2025)](https://community.nfdi4objects.net/assemblies/commons/f/1/proposals/45), is also available for your feedback. This paper provides specific recommendations for the digital recording of objects in collections and the handling of objects that have already been digitally recorded.

Both papers provide the community with specific recommendations for everyday use. We therefore hope to receive numerous comments and contributions by the end of the year to ensure the quality and everyday usability of both documents. Your assessments, comments, and perspectives are an important part of every contribution to the NFDI4Objects Commons. You are welcome to share and promote both articles in your networks. Everyone is welcome to join the discussions. To get you started, we also offer [help with commenting on posts in our Community Hub](https://community.nfdi4objects.net/assemblies/commons).

The content is written in german language.